Presentation of the Topic

Cryptocurrency is one of the most popular applications of blockchain technology. A cryptocurrency is a digital or virtual currency that uses cryptography for security and operates independently of a central bank. It is built on top of a blockchain. Bitcoin is the first and most well-known cryptocurrency, created in 2009 by an anonymous person or group using the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto. Bitcoin is a form of digital money that exists independently of any government, state, or financial institution, can be transferred globally without the need for a centralized intermediary, and has a known monetary policy that arguably cannot be altered. Since then, thousands of cryptocurrencies have been developed, each with its own unique features, use cases, and value propositions like Ethereum and other wide-scale cryptocurrency coins use blockchain to process and record transactions securely. This technology makes it possible to ensure transparency and protect the financial information and identity of crypto buyers and sellers.

Cryptocurrencies using blockchain technology have several advantages. One benefit is increased security, as blockchain records every transaction and it is impossible to change or manipulate the blockchain, supporting immutability. Another advantage is the better transparency that blockchain provides for enterprises, improving the overall transparency of an organization. Cryptocurrencies also enhance efficiency, as they eliminate intermediaries, reducing costs and speeding up transactions. Moreover, blockchain technology has the potential to create new and innovative products and services, and "smart contracts" can automate transactions, enhancing efficiency and expediting the process. Overall, cryptocurrency using blockchain technology can benefit the mass by providing a secure, transparent, efficient, and innovative way to carry out transactions and conduct business.
Blockchain has its built-in security and privacy features, it is very difficult to corrupt. A blockchain is protected by a high level of encryption to safeguard each exchange and transaction that occurs on the network. The crypto assets and account information recorded on your profile, which is highly sought after by today's thieves, are protected by blockchain security. (Stouffer, 2022).


